Self-into:-
-------------
Hi, I’m Hari, a Java Developer with 4 years of experience.
I specialize in building scalable enterprise applications using Core Java and Spring Boot.
Currently, I’m working at Virtusa for JP Morgan Chase Bank, where I design and develop microservices-based applications.
I have hands-on experience in integrating distributed systems with Apache Kafka,Rabbit MQ and modernizing legacy applications to align with business needs.
I work with technologies like Java, Spring Boot, Kafka, JPA, and DB2, and use tools like Splunk, Dynatrace, and Grafana to monitor application metrics and
postman,soapui to test the API's.
I also focus on testing and performance — I write unit tests using JUnit & Mockito and use JMeter and BlazeMeter for performance and load testing
I usually work in an agile environment, collaborating with teams to deliver quality features on time.
I enjoy solving complex problems, improving system performance, and I’m always eager to learn new technologies and deliver impactful solutions.

............................................................

1)In microservice, If one service is having some failures and causing other service failures. How we can resolve this?
In microservices architectures, when one service fails and causes failures in other services, this is known as "cascading failure."
To address this and improve system resilience, you should implement several key strategies:

1. Circuit Breaker Pattern
Explanation: A circuit breaker protects services from repeatedly trying to perform an operation that's likely to fail.
 When failures reach a threshold, the circuit breaker trips, and further calls are automatically rejected for a set period.
Real-Time Example: In Netflix's microservice architecture, if the Recommendation service is down, the API Gateway's circuit breaker prevents further calls to it for a while, instead serving default recommendations or a fallback message to users.

2. Timeout and Retry Policies
Explanation: Set reasonable timeouts for service calls so a failing service does not tie up resources in other services.
Pair this with retry policies, ensuring retries are limited and use exponential backoff.
Real-Time Example: In a payment system, the Order service sets a timeout for payment confirmation.
If the Payment service takes too long, the Order service cancels the transaction and notifies the user,
rather than hanging indefinitely.

3. Bulkhead Pattern
Explanation: Bulkheads isolate critical resources so that a failure in one part of the system doesn't bring down the entire application.
Real-Time Example: In a travel booking platform, if the car rental service becomes overloaded, a bulkhead ensures that flight and hotel services continue functioning, only isolating the car rental component.

4. Graceful Degradation & Fallbacks
Explanation: Services should offer degraded functionality when dependencies fail.
Real-Time Example: If a news website's "Like" service is down, the site continues serving news stories but hides or disables the "Like" button, rather than failing the entire page.

5. Proper Monitoring and Alerting
Explanation: Real-time monitoring helps detect failures immediately, reducing mean-time-to-recovery (MTTR).
Real-Time Example: E-commerce companies like Amazon utilize distributed tracing and monitoring (such as AWS X-Ray) to identify and isolate microservice failures quickly.

2)We have one scenario, our microservice is get huge traffic and due to this our app become slow and performance also low.
how we can solve this?
When your microservice experiences huge traffic, causing your app to become slow and impacting performance, you can apply several proven strategies to resolve these issues.
-->Auto-Scaling (Horizontal Scaling)
What it means: Automatically add more instances (containers, pods, or VMs) of your service when traffic increases, and scale them down when demand drops.
How it works in real life: Companies like Uber and Netflix use Kubernetes Horizontal Pod Autoscaler to automatically spin up more microservice instances when CPU or memory usage spikes, efficiently handling traffic surges and maintaining performance.

-->Load Balancing
What it means: Distribute incoming traffic evenly across multiple instances of your microservice so no single instance becomes a bottleneck.
Tools used: NGINX, HAProxy, AWS Elastic Load Balancer, or a cloud-native API Gateway.
Real example: E-commerce sites distribute millions of requests per minute across many app server instances using advanced load balancing, ensuring smooth user experiences during peak sales events.

-->Caching
What it means: Store frequently accessed data temporarily using cache (Redis, Memcached), reducing repeated expensive computations or database hits.
Real example: News sites cache trending articles and recommendations, providing instant responses to users—even during peak hours when the back-end database could slow down from query overload.

-->Rate Limiting and Throttling
What it means: Control how many requests clients can make in a certain time period, protecting your services from being overwhelmed by traffic spikes or abusive users.
Real example: APIs apply rate limiting to enforce quotas, ensuring no single user or client can degrade service for others.

-->Asynchronous Processing/Queueing
What it means: Long-running tasks or heavy computations are queued and processed in the background. This frees up the main service so it handles requests faster.
Real example: Order processing systems put payment and order fulfillment tasks on queues (like RabbitMQ or Kafka), letting the API respond instantly to users and process the order asynchronously.

3)How to Handle Exceptions in Spring Boot
Spring Boot provides a structured way to handle exceptions, keeping your APIs robust and user-friendly. The three most common approaches are:

1. Using @ExceptionHandler in a Controller
Use case: Handle exceptions for a specific controller only.
 @ExceptionHandler(NoSuchElementException.class)
    public ResponseEntity<String> handleNoSuchElement(NoSuchElementException ex) {
        return ResponseEntity.status(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND).body(ex.getMessage());
    }
}
How it works: If getCustomer() throws a NoSuchElementException, the handleNoSuchElement method will handle it and return a 404 response.

2. Using @ControllerAdvice for Global Exception Handling
Use case: Handle exceptions across all controllers—centralized error management.
@ControllerAdvice
public class GlobalExceptionHandler {
    @ExceptionHandler(CustomerAlreadyExistsException.class)
    @ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.CONFLICT)
    public @ResponseBody ErrorResponse
How it works: Any controller that throws these exceptions will automatically get a structured JSON error response and the right HTTP status code—no extra handling in each controller needed.

3. Creating Custom Exceptions
To represent application-specific problems clearly, define custom exceptions:

java
public class CustomerAlreadyExistsException extends RuntimeException {
    public CustomerAlreadyExistsException(String message) {
        super(message);
    }
}
public class NoSuchCustomerExistsException extends RuntimeException {
    public NoSuchCustomerExistsException(String message) {
        super(message);
    }
}

One-line Interview Summary
In Spring Boot, use @ExceptionHandler in controllers for local handling and @ControllerAdvice for centralized global exception logic.
Always define custom exceptions and structured error responses to keep your APIs robust and maintainable.

Bonus Tip: For REST APIs, use @RestControllerAdvice (which is the same as @ControllerAdvice but returns JSON by default).
This approach is production-ready and requested in most Spring Boot interviews!

4)Can you explain about unit testing and Unit testing scenarios
What is Unit Testing?
Unit testing is a software testing method where individual parts of the code—usually functions, methods, or classes—are tested in isolation to ensure they work as expected.
The main goal is to verify that each piece of code produces the correct result for a given input
How Do Unit Tests Work (Java Example)
Suppose you have a Calculator class:

java
public class Calculator {
    public int add(int a, int b) {
        return a + b;
    }
    public int subtract(int a, int b) {
        return a - b;
    }
}
A unit test for these methods (using JUnit) could look like:

java
import org.junit.Assert;
import org.junit.Test;

public class CalculatorTest {
    Calculator calculator = new Calculator();

    @Test
    public void testAdd() {
        Assert.assertEquals(8, calculator.add(5, 3));
    }

    @Test
    public void testSubtract() {
        Assert.assertEquals(2, calculator.subtract(5, 3));
    }
}
Example Scenarios for a Banking Application
Deposit Funds: Verify that the account balance increases correctly for a valid deposit.
Withdraw Funds: Check that withdrawal reduces the balance and does not allow overdraft (withdrawal greater than balance).
Transfer Funds: Ensure successful transfers between accounts and correct updates of balances.
Invalid Input: Attempt to deposit a negative amount—should throw an exception or error.
Boundary Check: Withdraw the exact total account balance—should leave balance at zero.

5)About Regression testing
Regression testing is a software testing process that involves re-running previously executed test cases to ensure that recent changes—like adding new features, fixing bugs, or making optimizations—haven’t broken existing functionality.

Why is Regression Testing Important?
Prevents new bugs: Even a small code change can accidentally introduce issues elsewhere in the application.
Ensures stability: Regression tests confirm the software remains stable and reliable after each update.
Supports rapid development: In continuous integration and fast release cycles, regression testing helps catch problems early.

Example
Suppose your e-commerce app allows:
Searching for products
Price calculation
Checkout
If you add a new “apply discount" feature, regression testing ensures searching, calculation, and checkout features still work correctly. If the new feature accidentally breaks price calculation, regression tests will catch this.

Types of Regression Testing
Type	             Description
Unit Regression --> Testing	Runs tests on small, individual units or modules affected by the code change
Partial Regression--> Testing	Tests only the areas of the system that were affected by the most recent change
Complete Regression--> Testing	Executes all the tests for the entire application to ensure nothing is broken
Selective Regression-->	Runs a subset of relevant test cases, not the full suite

Techniques & Tools
Automated Regression Testing: Tools like Selenium, Cypress, JUnit, and TestNG help automate test case execution for better efficiency and coverage.
Test Case Prioritization: Run high-risk or affected tests first.

6)What is static in a class
In Java, the keyword static means that a member (variable, method, block, or nested class) belongs to the class itself rather than to any specific instance (object) of that class.

What does static mean in a class?
Static variables (class variables): There is only one copy of the variable shared by all instances of the class. It exists even if no objects of the class are created.
Static methods: Can be called on the class itself without creating an object. They cannot access instance variables or methods directly.
Static blocks: Executes once when the class is loaded, used for initializing static variables.
Static nested classes: Associated with the outer class, but do not require an object of the outer class.

7)About CI/CD
CI/CD stands for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery/Deployment. It is a set of automated practices and tools that streamline how software is built, tested, and delivered, so you can release code updates quickly, safely, and reliably.

Continuous Integration (CI)
Developers frequently merge their code changes into a shared repository (like Git).
Each merge triggers an automated build and automated tests to check if the new code integrates smoothly and does not break anything.
CI helps catch bugs early, reduces integration problems, and allows teams to develop collaboratively and efficiently.

Example:
A developer pushes code to GitHub. An automated tool (like Jenkins) runs tests and a build. If something fails, the developer gets immediate feedback.

Continuous Delivery (CD)
After CI, continuous delivery takes the code and automatically prepares it for release (deploys to production-like environments such as staging or QA).
Code is always in a deployable state, but the final decision to move to production might be manual.
Ensures every change is tested and can be released quickly.

Continuous Deployment (CD)
Takes automation one step further; every change that passes tests is automatically deployed to production with no manual intervention.
Enables rapid, small, and safe updates to end users.

CI/CD Pipeline
A CI/CD pipeline is an automated sequence that builds, tests, and deploys code. Each step catches issues earlier, speeds up feedback, reduces human errors, and accelerates software delivery.

Benefits of CI/CD
Faster releases: Updates can reach users in minutes or hours, not weeks.
Higher quality: Automated testing prevents many bugs from reaching production.
Quick feedback: Developers get notified of issues right away.
Reliability and consistency: Automation reduces human error, allowing repeatable and safe deployment

8)About junit testing
JUnit is a popular open-source framework in Java used for writing and running automated unit tests. Its main goal is to help developers verify that individual sections of code (like classes or methods) work as expected.
Key Features of JUnit Testing
Automation: JUnit allows quick and automated testing of code whenever changes are made, making it easy to spot issues early.
Annotations: Special annotations like @Test, @Before, @After, etc., make test setup and execution straightforward.
Assertions: Built-in assertion methods (like assertEquals, assertTrue, etc.) let you easily check if results are as expected.
Integration: Works seamlessly with tools like Maven, Gradle, and CI/CD pipelines for automated build and test processes.
Readability and Maintainability: Clear test structures and methods improve collaboration and simplify code maintenance.

Explanation:
@Test marks the method as a test case.
Assert.assertEquals(5, result) checks if the actual output matches the expected value (5).

Common JUnit Annotations
Annotation	Purpose
@Test	-->Marks a method as a test case
@Before	-->Runs before each test to set up test data
@After	-->Runs after each test for cleanup
@BeforeClass-->	Runs once before all tests in the class
@AfterClass	-->Runs once after all tests in the class

Why Use JUnit?
Early bug detection: Ensures each part of your program works correctly right from the start.
Supports regression testing: Makes it easy to re-run tests whenever code changes, checking for new bugs.
Test-driven development (TDD): Encourages writing tests first and production code later, increasing reliability.

9)