1)A user clicks the "Pay Now" button multiple times and multiple payments are processed. How would you prevent this?
  This is a common issue in payment systems. I would implement idempotency by generating a unique idempotency key for each payment request.
  The backend stores the key along with the transaction result.
  If the same request comes again with the same key, the system returns the existing response instead of processing the payment again.
  Additionally, I would disable the payment button on the UI after the first click to reduce duplicate requests.

2)Payment Service depends on Notification Service, but Notification Service is unavailable. What would you do?
  I would use the Circuit Breaker pattern to prevent repeated calls to the failed service.
  Once the failure threshold is reached, the circuit opens and stops sending requests temporarily.
  The payment transaction should still complete successfully because notification is not a critical operation.
  I would publish the notification event to Kafka so it can be processed later when the service becomes available.
  This improves system resilience and user experience.

3)Your application suddenly receives 1 million requests. How would you handle it?
  First, I would scale the application horizontally by adding more service instances behind a load balancer.
  Frequently accessed data can be cached using Redis to reduce database load.
  For heavy background processing, I would use Kafka to handle requests asynchronously.
  Monitoring tools like Grafana and Dynatrace would help identify bottlenecks.
  This approach improves performance and system stability during traffic spikes.

4)An API that normally responds in 200ms is now taking 10 seconds. How would you investigate?
  I would start by checking logs and monitoring dashboards using tools like Splunk, Grafana, or Dynatrace.
  Then I would identify whether the issue is in the application, database, or external services.
  Slow SQL queries, missing indexes, and connection pool exhaustion are common causes.
  Thread dumps and JVM metrics can also help identify performance bottlenecks. Based on the findings, I would optimize the affected component.

5)A Kafka consumer crashes while processing messages. How do you avoid data loss?
  Kafka stores messages in the topic for a configured retention period, so messages are not lost immediately.
  I would use manual offset commits and commit the offset only after successful processing.
  If the consumer crashes before committing, Kafka will resend the message when the consumer restarts.
  This ensures reliable processing and prevents data loss. Proper retry and dead-letter queue mechanisms can also be implemented.

6)Users need to upload files larger than 5GB. How would you design the system?
  Uploading such large files through the application server can impact performance.
  I would use cloud storage like S3 or GCP Storage and generate pre-signed URLs for direct uploads.
  Chunked upload can be implemented so files are uploaded in smaller parts.
  This reduces memory consumption and network overhead on the application server.
  It also improves reliability for large file transfers.

7)All database connections are busy and requests are failing. What would you do?
  I would first check whether connections are being properly closed after usage.
  Then I would investigate slow queries and long-running transactions that may be holding connections.
  Monitoring HikariCP metrics can help identify pool utilization. Optimizing queries and increasing pool size, if required, can improve throughput.
  Proper connection management is essential to prevent such issues.

8)Order Service created an order successfully, but Payment Service failed. How would you handle consistency?
  In a microservices architecture, I would use the Saga Pattern.
  If payment fails after order creation, a compensating transaction would automatically cancel the order.
  This ensures consistency across services without using distributed transactions. Events can be exchanged through Kafka to coordinate the workflow.
  This approach is widely used in e-commerce and banking applications.

9)Notification processing takes 10 seconds and users are waiting. How would you solve it?
  I would make notification processing asynchronous using Kafka.
  After a successful payment, the Payment Service publishes an event to Kafka and immediately responds to the user.
  Notification Service consumes the event separately and sends the notification. This reduces API response time and improves user experience.
  It also increases system scalability and fault tolerance.

10)Thousands of users are calling the same API repeatedly. How would you improve performance?
  I would introduce caching using Redis. Frequently accessed data can be stored in the cache, reducing database calls significantly.
  The application checks Redis first and only queries the database when data is not available in the cache.
  Cache expiration policies can ensure data remains fresh. This improves response time and reduces backend load.

11)One service is consuming all threads and affecting the entire application. How would you handle it?
  I would implement the Bulkhead Pattern to isolate resources. Separate thread pools can be allocated for different services or functionalities.
  If one service becomes overloaded, it only impacts its own resources and not the entire application.
  This improves fault isolation and system stability. Bulkhead is commonly used with Circuit Breaker in microservice architectures.

12)Suppose 100 users try to book the last movie ticket at the same time. How would you prevent multiple bookings for the same seat?
  This is a concurrency problem. I would synchronize access to the booking logic so that only one thread can book the seat at a time.
  In a distributed system, I might use a database lock or distributed lock (Redis).
  Before confirming the booking, the system checks seat availability and updates it atomically.
  This prevents race conditions where multiple users book the same seat simultaneously.

  Live Example:
  BookMyShow, airline ticket booking, railway reservation systems.

13)Different APIs return different error formats when exceptions occur. How would you standardize error responses?
  I would implement a global exception handler using @ControllerAdvice and @ExceptionHandler.
  This allows handling exceptions from all controllers in one place.
  A common error response structure containing timestamp, error code, message, and path can be returned.
  This improves API consistency and makes debugging easier for frontend and client applications.

  Live Example:
  Instead of returning random error messages, all APIs return:

  {
    "timestamp":"2026-06-08T10:00:00",
    "status":400,
    "message":"Invalid Account Number"
  }

14)Your API is taking 8–10 seconds to return customer and order data.
Investigation shows many SQL queries are executed. What could be the issue?
  This is often caused by the N+1 Query Problem in JPA.
  When fetching customers, JPA may execute additional queries for each customer's orders.
  I would analyze the generated SQL logs and use JOIN FETCH, Entity Graphs,
  or optimized DTO queries to reduce the number of database calls.
  This significantly improves performance and reduces database load.

  Live Example:
  100 customers are loaded.

  1 query for customers
  100 additional queries for orders
  Total = 101 queries
  Using JOIN FETCH, the same data can be retrieved in a single query.

15)Different APIs return different error formats when exceptions occur. How would you standardize error responses?
  I would implement a global exception handler using @ControllerAdvice and @ExceptionHandler.
  This allows handling exceptions from all controllers in one place.
  A common error response structure containing timestamp, error code, message, and path can be returned.
  This improves API consistency and makes debugging easier for frontend and client applications.



